6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Beth
As an adult, when I need to tell somebody something, it's easy
I just open my mouth and speak
Neil, I'm hungry
Ah, you better get something to eat then
And when I want something, it's the same
I just ask
Can you pass me that pen please, Beth?
There you go
But imagine a situation where you can't speak
You can only communicate with your body
What's more, you're totally helpless
And can't close, feed or wash yourself
It doesn't sound much fun, doesn't Neil
But that's exactly what happened to us all
As babies
We've all been one, but how do newborn babies tell mum and dad
What's going on before they can speak
That's what we'll be investigating in this episode
Along with some useful new vocabulary
All of which you can find on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Babycommunication is a topic
Childsicotherapist
Marie Durome
Write about in her new book
What your baby wants you to know
So what do newborn babies want us to know
Well, here's Marie's answer
I think they want us to know that
They need us
We need to decide where babies decide
We decide where babies decide
We decide where babies decide where babies decide
We decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide
We decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide
decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide where babies decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide decide decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide decide decide
decide decide decide
So which of the following statements about newborn babies is true?
A, babies are born with a full set of teeth.
B, babies, eyes change color, or C, babies have the same number of bones as an adult.
Oh, that's an interesting question.
I think I know the answer though.
I'm going to go with B, babies, eyes change color.
Okay. Well, we'll find out if that's right at the end of the program.
Now, if you've spent time with a baby, you've probably noticed how much they move their little arms and legs.
Here, Marida Rome explains the meaning of these movements to BBC Radio full program, woman's hour.
75% of their movement are intentional synchronized.
They're not jerky.
We know to the naked eye, they're pulled the appear very jerky.
But they're not.
They're there to bring us in the parents, they need us.
So they, all those movements are there to say, look, come, look at me.
I need you.
I want you to, you know, to play with you.
Babies move their arms and legs to create a bond with their parents.
To the naked eye, these movements look jerky.
An adjective meaning sudden and quick, not smooth flowing.
The phrase to the naked eye means, in a way, that can be seen without special instruments like a microscope,
or is seen in the way an ordinary person would.
In reality, these jerky movements are intentional, meaning that their planned and done for a particular purpose.
To catch their parents' attention, say they will be noticed and cared for.
Marie's book is aimed at new parents who are learning to understand their baby's body language.
But she also has advice for parents who are finding it difficult to bond with their newborn.
And she explains here to BBC Radio 4 program, Woman's Hour.
Parenting is really hard, falling in love with this little baby.
It's not, you know, this idea that love at first sight, I think it's such an helpful cliché.
It will take time to love that baby, to get to know that baby.
Many new parents dream about falling in love with their baby at first sight.
The idiom love at first sight means being in love with someone as soon as you see them for the first time.
But Marie thinks this ideal dream can cause problems.
She calls it an unhelpful cliché.
A cliché is an overused phrase or comment that has been said so much that it's become unoriginal and uninteresting.
And in some cases, unhelpful.
For example, by creating unrealistic expectations or by making parents feel guilty, they're not doing enough.
Marie says it takes time to get to know a newborn baby and to fall in love.
But for most parents, all the misunderstandings, sleepless nights and dirty nappies are worth it for their amazing baby.
And speaking of amazing babies, what was the correct answer to your question, Beth?
Well, the correct statement was that babies' eyes changed colour.
I think you got that right, Neil.
I did. It's an amazing fact, but apparently true.
Yes, indeed. Okay, so let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this episode, starting with the phrase 100%.
Which can be used to emphasise that you completely agree with something or that you consider something to be completely right or wrong.
If you describe a movement as jerky, you mean it move suddenly and stops and starts rather than flowing smoothly.
The adjective intentional means planned and purposeful.
The phrase to the naked eye means in a way that can be seen without special instruments or to someone without special knowledge.
The idiom love at first sight describes the experience of starting to love someone as soon as you see them for the first time.
And finally, an unhelpful cliché is an overused phrase or comment, a cliché, which has the effect of creating unhelpful or unrealistic attitudes.
Once again, our six minutes are up, but remember you can find many more episodes, plus a quiz and worksheet for this one on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Goodbye for now.
Goodbye.